/**

\page NewInPTS9 What's new in PTS 9

\section NewInPTS9Introduction Introduction

\subsection NewInPTS9IntroProblem The problem

In previous versions, the Python toolkit for SKIRT (PTS) has far outgrown its original scope of being a basic toolkit
for SKIRT. It includes project-specific sub-packages (e.g., eagle, dustpedia) and sub-packages with a limited
connection to SKIRT and/or with a much larger potential application base (e.g., magic, modeling). Combining largely
unrelated feature sets into a single package is causing issues in the development process. For example, version updates
are not necessarily synchronized. And there is the challenge of supporting multiple versions of SKIRT in those portions
of the code that directly interact with the SKIRT executable or with its input and output files.

One might argue that several of the PTS sub-packages (e.g., dustpedia, magic, modeling) would make sense as stand-alone
projects or as packages affiliated with other open-source efforts. However, there are quite some interdependencies
between the PTS sub-packages, so that carving out any of these sub-packages would be a nontrivial undertaking.

Finally, for historical reasons, previous PTS versions are written in Python version 2. Moving the code to Python 3 (a
nontrivial undertaking) is becoming urgent, because the developers of both Python and the major scientific packages
have pledged to drop support for Python 2 by the beginning of 2020.

Given that funding for the projects supporting the development of the non-core PTS sub-packages has now ended, there
seems to be no way carry them forward to a new version at this time.

\subsection NewInPTS9IntroForward The way forward

The new version of the Python toolkit for SKIRT, PTS 9, resides in a fresh code repository and is being developed with
the objective to include ony basic tools for working with SKIRT 9 (e.g. local execution and visualization) and for
supporting the SKIRT 9 development process (e.g. resource conversion and functional testing). PTS 9 will \em not
support other versions of SKIRT, and will \em not include sub-packages that are less directly related to SKIRT or that
have a larger scope. PTS 9 is written in Python 3.7 (a recent Python version) with dependencies on equally recent
scientific packages.

The previous PTS repository, with all its features, including support for SKIRT 8, remains available in maintenance
mode and is not deprecated at least as long as SKIRT8 is not deprecated. Any interested party is welcome to carve out
or otherwise repurpose any portion of the legacy PTS code and make it available as a standalone package or as part of
some other effort.

See also:

- \ref NewInSKIRT9
- \ref OpenSource9
- \ref StatusRoadmap9

\section NewInPTS9Features Features

The following table lists the current Python sub-packages in PTS 9 with an indication of the functionality
offered by each.

| Package | Description
|---------|------------
| admin | Administrative functions, such as listing PTS package dependencies and creating archives for backup purposes
| band | Representing broadband filters, including transmission curve data for a set of standard bands
| do | Accessing PTS functionality from the command line or from the interactive Python prompt
| simulation | Interfacing with the SKIRT executable, the configuration file, and SKIRT output files (with units)
| storedtable | Converting third-party data to SKIRT stored table format and otherwise accessing files in this format
| test | Performing and reporting on SKIRT functional tests
| utils | Basic utilities for use by other sub-packages
| visual | Visualizing SKIRT results including image frames, SEDs, density cuts, temperature cuts, polarization maps, and more.

*/
