/**

\page OpenSource9 Open source deployment

\section OpenSource9Introduction Introduction

The SKIRT source code has been publicly available for several years now, along with extensive documentation including
reference material, user guide, and tutorials. More than 50 refereed astrophysical papers have been published that
report on results generated using SKIRT. About 20 of these papers were published during the last four years by teams
that did not include anyone of the core SKIRT team, and some of these studies were conducted without any support from
the core SKIRT team at all. While we consider this to be a success, we intend to take the open-source deployment of the
SKIRT project a step further

We specifically aim to increase the level of contributions to the project from outside the core SKIRT team. Indeed, as
explained elsewhere (see \ref NewInSKIRT9), we plan to add support for new physics to SKIRT 9, so that the code can
serve a much wider range of applications beyond "just" dust radiative transfer. Many of these projects will be, at
least to some extent, outside the dust-centered expertise domain of the core SKIRT team. As a consequence, we will need
outside assistance to help develop, test and make use of these new capabilities.

This page outlines some of the mechanisms we intend to use in deploying version 9 of the SKIRT project to the
community, in support of these objectives.

See also:

- \ref NewInSKIRT9
- \ref NewInPTS9
- \ref StatusRoadmap9

\section OpenSource9GitHub GitHub

All SKIRT project repositories are public and are hosted on github.com as part of the (existing) SKIRT organization.
The private repositories on github.ugent.be are no longer used and will eventually be removed. Maintaining just a
single copy of each repository greatly simplifies the workflow for handling contributions, and ensures that everyone
has access to the most recent version.

Next to the SKIRT and PTS source code, the source text for the web site is also placed in a public repository, allowing
contributions to the documentation (user guide, tutorials, ...) through a workflow similar to that for source code. The
following table lists the current respositories in the SKIRT organization.

| Repository name | Description
|-----------------|-------------
| SKIRT7 | SKIRT 7 C++ source code; deprecated
| SKIRT8 | SKIRT 8 C++ source code; production ready; maintenance mode
| SKIRT9 | SKIRT 9 C++ source code; new developments
| PTS    | Python Toolkit for SKIRT 7 & 8; many extras; maintenance mode
| PTS9   | Python Toolkit for SKIRT 9; trimmed down; new developments
| Web8   | SKIRT 8 & PTS 8 documentation (user guide, tutorials, ...)
| Web9   | SKIRT 9 & PTS 9 documentation plus SKIRT project pages (landing, contributors, publications, ...)

Because the repositories are public, any GitHub user has read access and can post an issue or send a pull request. A
user with a specific interest in SKIRT can (and should) become a member of the SKIRT \c Contributor team, granting them
access to SKIRT-related broadcast notifications and team discussions. The core SKIRT team members also have push access
rights to the repositories and are responsible for handling pull requests.

The SKIRT organization uses the \em fork \em and \em pull workflow model. Anyone can fork a repository, push changes to
their personal fork, and initiate a pull request. The changes can be pulled into the source repository by a core team
member, possibly after discussion and/or being adjusted in one or more iterations.

Usage questions, bug reports and feature requests are managed through the \em issues system offered by GitHub. Anyone
can post an issue, and anyone can respond. Core team members make sure that issues are addressed timely, label and
assign issues appropriately, and eventually close issues as needed.

Notifications about important events (e.g., a new major feature becoming available, or an upcoming SKIRT user group
meeting) can be broadcast to all contributors through a GitHub team page. The team page also allows discussions that
are not directly related to a particular issue (e.g., about a particular SKIRT use case or an upcoming conference).

\section OpenSource9Website Web site

All documentation for SKIRT and PTS is made available on the SKIRT website, which is hosted on the Ghent University web
server. The reference documentation is embedded in the source code as special comment blocks in Doxygen format, and is
thus automatically contained in a GitHub repository and a part of the development cycle.

All other documentation (installation & user guide, tutorials, etc.) is authored as a set of text files in Doxygen
format (i.e. special comment blocks without actual source code). These Doxygen source files, together with any
referenced images and the relevant Doxygen configuration files, are contained in a separate public repository as
indicated in the table above. This enables a fully collaborative workflow using pull requests and issues for the
documentation just as for the actual source code.

Each repository includes a \c makeHTML.sh procedure that drives Doxygen to locally build HTML pages from the comment
blocks embedded in the source code or text files in the repository. This procedure converts LaTeX formulas to images,
performing a full LaTeX syntax check along the way. As a result, this procedure enables contributors to verify changes
in the documentation before initiating a pull request (assuming Doxygen is installed on their system).

The SKIRT website combines the documentation from the various repositories. In addition to its own makeHTML.sh
procedure, the Web9 repository therefore contains a \c stageWebsite.sh procedure to locally build the complete web site
from a local copy of all relevant repositories (SKIRT8, SKIRT9, PTS, PTS9, Web8, Web9). This procedure uses MATHJAX to
render LaTeX formulas, which avoids the many images created by an explicit conversion, and leads to a much more
pleasing formula presentation.

While any contributor can stage the web site, assuming they have a local copy of all relevant repositories, only a core
team member can actually publish the website because it requires write access rights to the web server.

\section OpenSource9Data Data

Because of size limitations on the Ghent University web server and in GitHub repositories, data files needed by the
code and/or linked from the website are handled separately and are hosted on the Ghent University science faculty data
server. Examples of extra data files include:

 - External resources for SKIRT.
 - Example data used in tutorials on SKIRT or PTS.
 - Configuration, input and reference data for SKIRT benchmark tests.

These data files are prepared and published by a core team member. There is at this point no automated workflow for
other contributors to participate in this effort, although many of the procedures are available as part of PTS. For
example, contributors can locally prepare and use new SKIRT 9 stored table resource files (see \ref
NewInSKIRT9Resources) by adjusting or extending the appropriate PTS functions.

*/
