/**

\page StatusRoadmap9 Status and roadmap

\section StatusRoadmap9Status Status

<em>August 26, 2019</em>

Version 9 of the SKIRT project has been publicly released a few months ago and has reached a state where it is ready to
be used for science projects. SKIRT 9 properly performs hundreds of handcrafted test cases and properly runs all
available benchmarks. SKIRT 9 and PTS 9 are fully documented, including up-to-date tutorials, concept notes and
reference material. This new version is now being used for its first actual science projects. However, unknown problems
may still be waiting to surface when the code is put to more extensive use. We therefore specifically invite you to
perform further testing, evaluation, and proof-reading, and we look forward to hearing from you.

The core SKIRT team.

See also:

- \ref NewInSKIRT9
- \ref NewInPTS9
- \ref OpenSource9
- \ref RecentChanges9
- \ref Version9SKIRTFeatures "SKIRT 9 features"
- \ref Version9PTSFeatures "PTS 9 features"

\section StatusRoadmap9Roadmap Roadmap

The SKIRT 9 framework offers a wide range of opportunities for adding new physical processes and other capabilities to
the code. Our goal is to offer fully integrated functionality, where new features leverage and interoperate with the
existing onces. This allows, for example, reusing the infrastructure for handling spatial distributions (built-in
geometries, importing snapshots, adaptive grids) and for mananaging the Monte Carlo photon cycle from launch to
detection. Providing such integration with an existing code base often requires extra design and implementation
efforts. However, the resulting code should offer maximum configuration flexibility and should allow combining various
media types and many physical processes in a single simulation.

Generally speaking, regardless of their origin, features requests and ideas should be entered as a issue on GitHub in
the category "feature suggestion". This way, it becomes possible to have public discussions about feasibility and
desirability of the various ideas, and items may be picked up by any contributor inside or outside the core SKIRT team.

The sections below briefly outline a number of larger projects that are scheduled to start in 2019 -- without offering
any commitment towards results nor predicting any completion dates. We will be able to allocate resources from within
the Ghent University SKIRT research team to most of these projects. In all cases, however, a substantial fraction of
the work will be accomplished by and in cooperation with other teams, who will also provide the necessary expertise to
evaluate the results in the context of a particular science application.

If you are interested in participating in any of these projects, please contact us. Remember that contributions can
take many forms and are not limited to writing code. For example, adding domain expertise and insight or validating
simulation results by comparing with observations or with previous simulation results can be very valuable.

The core SKIRT team.


\subsection StatusRoadmap9Kinematics Kinematics in simulated galaxies

The goal of this project is to evaluate the effect of dust on the (mock-)observed kinematics in selected simulated
galaxies with various morphologies. This project will use the new kinematics capabilities in SKIRT 9, possibly with
some further extensions such as, perhaps, allowing a velocity dispersion in addition to the average velocity vector
imported for each particle from the hydro snapshot.


\subsection StatusRoadmap9Spheroidal Polarization effects of spheroidal dust grains

We intend to support the effects of aligned spheroidal (i.e. non-spherical) dust grains on the polarization of
radiation in SKIRT. This entails a number of subprojects. A first step is to obtain or calculate the required optical
material properties as a function of wavelength, grain format, and radiation-grain interaction geometry. We also need a
way to model the direction and degree of alignment of the dust grains in each location, probably derived from the
magnetic field line distribution in an MHD simulaton snapshot. Finally, we need to implement the actual physical
processes, including polarized emission, polarization through scattering, and dichroic absorption.


\subsection StatusRoadmap9StarFormation Subgrid models for star formation regions

This project aims to improve our current approach for modeling star formation regions in radiative transfer simulations
of galaxies. These regions are typically very compact and contain a lot of dust. It is therefore not feasible to
include their detailed geometry in the galaxy simulation, and one needs to resort to subgrid emission templates. These
templates include both the primary stellar emission (after extinction by the dust) and the secondary dust emission
generated in the star formation region. As a result, an important challenge is to properly couple these templates with
the radiative transfer simulation of the full galaxy, for example by compensating for the dust mass represented by the
template, or by simulating the anisotropic emission resulting from the compact, irregular geometries inside the star
formation regions. To this end, we would like to improve our understanding of the templates currently used in SKIRT,
or possibly find or develop adjusted templates.


\subsection StatusRoadmap9IonizedGas Subgrid models for ionized gas

In this project we aim to develop a subgrid model for ionized gas as an additional source of radiation in galaxies,
besides the stellar populations. Hydrodynamic simulations usually yield a number of properties of the gas distribution
at every location (such as density and metallicity), but this does not suffice to calculate the emission spectrum of
the gas. The emission spectrum also depends on the intensity and shape of the radiation field at that location. We
intend to use a library of template models for the gas emission, with an iterative approach in SKIRT to calculate the
emission and radiation field state self-consistenly.


\subsection StatusRoadmap9LymanAlpha Lyman-alpha line transfer

In addition to proper support for kinematics, simulating the observed Lyman-alpha line profile for an astrophysical
object requires highly specialized algorithms. For example, in many environments, photons close to the center of the
line see a very high optical depth until, after many slightly Doppler-shifted interactions, they arrive in one of the
tails of the line profile. It is not feasible to follow all of these interactions with a standard Monte Carlo photon
cycle. In this project, we aim to implement a Lyman-alpha-specific photon cycle in SKIRT that takes into account the
effects of both the dust and (the Lyman-alpha line of) the hydrogen gas in the interstellar medium.


\subsection StatusRoadmap9SHydrogen Hydrogen line transfer

We are developing a gas module that calculates the state of the hydrogen gas (abundances of ionized and non-ionized
atomic and molecular hydrogen; electronic states; kinematic temperature, ...) as a function of the local radiation
field and the material density and composition, as well as the resulting emission spectrum. We hope to include most
physical processes (formation, destruction, heating, cooling, electronic state transitions, ...) that have a
significant impact on the hydrogen emission spectrum (including the most important line ratios) in a parameter range
relevant for typical galaxy simulations. The goal of this project is to incorporate this gas module into SKIRT and have
it self-consistently calulate the gas state and resulting emission spectrum for each of the spatial cells in the
simulation, in an iterative process. Because these simulations will consume a lot of resources (memory and processing
time), the spatial resolution will be severely limited, at least initially.


*/
