/**

\page Lya Lyman-alpha line transfer

\section LyaIntro Introduction

This concept note describes SKIRT's Lyman-alpha line radiation transfer capabilities. We indicate the assumptions about
(or rather restrictions on) the simulated model, summarize the relevant physics, and discuss various aspects of the
implementation and the numerical recipes used. The text is organized in sections as follows:

- \ref LyaAssu
- \ref LyaPhys
- \ref LyaImpl


\section LyaAssu Assumptions

Hydrogen is the most abundant element in our Universe and, correspondingly, the Lyman-alpha (Lyα) transition serves as
an important observational tool. Because Lyα is a resonance line, and because typical astrophysical environments are
optically thick to Lyα, its radiative transfer (RT) is nontrivial. The implementation of Lyα capabilities in SKIRT is
limited to models that conform to the following important assumptions (or rather restrictions):

  - The spatial extent of the model is small relative to the distance to the observer (i.e. to the instruments in
  SKIRT). This allows considering all locations in the model to have the same distance to the observer and it allows
  using parallel projection.

  - The spatial extent of the model is small relative to a cosmological volume and the spatial grid in SKIRT is
  well-resolved across the model, implying a maximum size of the order of a single galaxy. This allows assuming that
  the wavelength shifts caused by cosmic expansion within each spatial cell are small relative to the width of the
  local Lya cross section profile. (If this would not be the case, a photon packet might inadvertently 'skip' over the
  cross section profile rather than being scattered.)

  - The model is intended to trace the Lyα emerging from the interstellar medium (ISM) that is part of the
  astrophysical object under study, while ignoring the effects of the circumgalactic and intergalactic medium (CGM/IGM)
  outside of the object. This avoids the need for providing a larger simulation box and/or including a subgrid recipe
  for handling the effects of the CGM/IGM.

  - The density distribution of neutral hydrogen is defined by the input model and remains fixed during the simulation.
  In other words, there is no self-consistent calculation of the ionized hydrogen fraction. Instead, the user is
  responsible for determining this ahead of the RT simulation.

Within these limitations, the model can be placed at any redshift supported by SKIRT (see \ref Redshift)


\section LyaPhys Physics

\subsection LyaPhysEmission Emission

\image html HydrogenEnergyLevels.png

The above diagram illustrates some of the energy levels of atomic hydrogen (labeled with quantum numbers \f$n,\ell\f$)
and the allowed transitions between them. Whenever the electron ends up on a higher energy level, it cascades down to
either the 2s or the 2p state. From the 2p state, the final transition to the ground state produces a Lyα photon,
correspondign to a wavelength of \f$\lambda_\alpha = 1215.67\,\text{\AA}\f$. From the 2s state, single-photon
transitions are forbidden (because they require \f$\Delta\ell=\pm1\f$), but two-photon transitions allow the electron
to decay to the ground state. These transitions are much less probable but still occur frequently enough to justify the
assumption that essentially all neutral hydrogen atoms in astrophysical contexts reside in the ground state.

Electrons can end up in a higher energy state in two different ways. The first possibility is by collisions between a
free electron and a neutral hydrogen atom, exciting the atom at the expense of kinetic energy of the free electron. The
process converts thermal energy of the electrons, and thus of the gas as whole, into radiation. It is therefore also
referred to as cooling by producing Lyα radiation. The efficiency of this process depends on the number densities of
electrons and neutral hydrogen atoms and on the velocity distribution of the electrons.

The second mechanism is recombination of a free proton and a free electron, which again can leave the electron in any
energy state. It is possible to compute the probability that a Lyα photon is produced during the radiative cascade down
to the ground-state by summing (and properly weighing) the probabilities for each of the excited states. One usually
assumes that astrophysical gases efficiently re-absorb higher order Lyman series and ionizing photons, effectively
canceling out these transitions. This on the spot approximation is referred to as Case-B recombination.

For both emission mechanisms, the calculations are complicated and we don't discuss further details here. Instead, we
briefly consider the most important astrophysical sites of Lyα production.

Interstellar HII regions are the most prominent sources of Lyα in the Universe. Young stars produce ionizing photons in
their atmospheres which are efficiently absorbed in the ISM, and thus create regions of ionized hydrogen. Recombining
protons and electrons give rise to Lyα emission (among lines caused by other electronic transitions). For a fixed
initial mass function, the Lyα production rate increases towards lower metallicities. Stellar evolution models combined
with stellar atmosphere models show that the effective temperature of stars of fixed mass become hotter with decreasing
gas metallicity. The increased effective temperature causes a larger fraction of the bolometric luminosity to be
emitted as ionizing radiation.

The (usually small) neutral hydrogen fraction in the CGM and IGM can produce spatially extended Lyα emission resulting
from cooling (collisions with electrons) or triggered by ionizing radiation from other external sources such as the
Universal ultraviolet (UV) background. This internal CGM/IGM emission usually has a low surface brightness, however,
and it is often dominated by scattered Lyα radiation that actually originated in remote sources.



\section LyaImpl Implementation

Blabla.

*/
