/**

\page InstallUbuntu Installing Anaconda on Ubuntu

The [Anaconda distribution](https://www.anaconda.com/distribution/) is an open source Python distribution that includes
an extensive Python package manager. It offers many additional features, including the option to define and switch
between multiple Python environments. This allows, for example, Python 2 and Python 3 versions to coexist peacefully on
the same computer.

This page describes how to install Anaconda on Ubuntu using the command line only, i.e. without a graphical user
interface, for example logged in to the system through an ssh connection. The installation procedure using the command
line on other Unix systems is probably very similar.


\section InstallUbuntuDistrib The Anaconda distribution

As a first step, you will need a regular, interactive Web browser to locate the appropriate Anaconda installer. In case
the target system can be reached only through a command line interface, you will need to use a Web browser on another
computer, possibly the computer through which you are logged in to the target system. That being said, follow the steps
outlined below to install the Anaconda distribution.

- In your interactive Web browser, visit the Anaconda distribution page at https://www.anaconda.com/distribution

- Using the tabs half-way the page, switch to the correct target operating system (Linux in our example).

- Locate the link to the installer for Python version 3.7 and for the appropriate system architecture
  (64-bit x86 in virtually all cases).

- Right-click on the link, select "Copy Link" from the context menu and paste the result in a plain text editor
  or terminal window, or otherwise figure out the full absolute URL to the installer. At the time of writing the URL is
  https://repo.anaconda.com/archive/Anaconda3-2019.03-Linux-x86_64.sh

- Login to the target system if you have not already done so, create a temporary directory, and download the
  installer into that directory:

      mkdir AnacondaInstaller
      cd AnacondaInstaller
      wget https://repo.anaconda.com/archive/Anaconda3-2019.03-Linux-x86_64.sh

  replacing the URL by the appropriate current installer URL.

- After the download completes, launch the installer:

      chmod +rx Anaconda3-2019.03-Linux-x86_64.sh
      ./Anaconda3-2019.03-Linux-x86_64.sh

  again replacing the file name by the current installer file name.

- Follow the instructions displayed by the installer, accepting the default install location, and responding "yes" when
  asked whether the installer should initialize Anaconda3 by running conda init.

  \note The Anaconda installer adds several lines of commands to your login script; do \em not remove these lines.

- After the installer completes, you can trash it (or you can do this later):

      rm Anaconda3-2019.03-Linux-x86_64.sh
      cd ..
      rm -d AnacondaInstaller


- Logout and re-login to the target computer so that the commands added to your login script by the Anaconda installer
  get executed.

- When you enter "python" at the command line, the welcome prompt should now list the Python version you just
installed (i.e. version 3.7 or higher) and it should include the name Anaconda.

- Install any missing Python packages using the procedure described in the following section (see \ref InstallPackages
  for a list of packages required by PTS).


\section InstallUbuntuPacks Extra Python packages

To install extra Python packages in your Anaconda environment, follow the steps outlined below.

- If you haven't already done so, login to the target system.

- To display a list of all installed packages and their version numbers, enter:

      conda list

- To determine whether a particular package is installed, add the package name. For example, enter:

      conda list numpy

- To install an extra package, use the \c conda \c install command. For example, enter:

      conda install reportlab

  The conda command will display a list of packages to be installed and/or updated, including any dependencies of the
  requested package. Enter "yes" when asked whether to proceed.

- Repeat the previous steps to install additional packages, or specify multiple packages in the \c conda \c install
  command to install all of them in one go.


\section InstallUbuntuFinal Finalizing the PTS installation

You are now ready to install \c PTS as described in \ref InstallPTS.

*/
